Before jumping into the softmax function,
I want to to talk a little
bit about the ReLU function or
the rectified linear units.
Apart from the input neurons,
which are used as is,
each layer first calculates the weighted
sum of its inputs and adds a bias,
then passes the results into
an activation function.
So for the hidden layer you
first calculate z1 = W1x + b1.
And to get h,
you pass z1 into an activation function,
which is the rectified linear units
function or ReLU for this layer.
ReLU is a popular general purpose
activation function that only activates
the neuron every sum of its
weighted inputs is positive and
passes through this results,
if that's the case.
Mathematically, ReLU(x), where x is a real
number is equal to the maximum of (0,
x), you can see the graph for
this function here.
Here's an example for
vectors z1, to get the vector h,
it's representing the value of the hidden
layer, you apply the ReLU function.
The rows from z1 that are negative,
like -0.3 and
-4.6 becomes 0s in h, and
the positive values stay as is, so
for instance 5.1 stays as 5.1 and
0.2 is still 0.2.
Now for the output layer, you calculate
the weighted sum of the values from
the hidden layer and add the bias vector.
That's w2h + b2 which I'll call z
instead of z2 in the previous slides for
reasons that will soon become apparent.
You then passes into
the activation function,
which is the softmax function for
this layer to get the output vector y hat.
The softmax function works as follows,
its input is a vector of real
numbers as opposed to ReLU,
which in its original form is
a function of a single real number.
It's output's a vector of real numbers in
the interval 0 to 1 which sum up to 1 and
can be interpreted as
probabilities of exclusive events.
In the case of the continuous
bag of words model,
when you apply softmax to z, you obtain
an output vector y hat with v rows,
where each row corresponds to a word
of the vocabulary of the corpus.
The values of the vector
can be interpreted
as the probability that the center word
which is what the model is trying to
predict is the word that is
assigned to each of the rows.
Mathematically, if the input
to softmax is vector zi
with element zi with i
ranging from 1 to V,
and the resulting vector is y
hat with elements y hat of i.
Then y hat i = e to the zi divided
by the sum over j of e to the zj.
The exponential transforms all our
inputs two positive numbers and
the divisor normalizes the vector so
that the rols sum up to 1.
To illustrate softmax with a numerical
example, let's say that z is equal to this
vector, taking the exponential of
these values gives you this vector.
And the row sum up to 97,899,
which will be the denominator
in the softmax function.
You can now get the values of the y hat
vector by dividing the previous vector by
the sum of its elements.
So the first element will
be 8,103 divided 97,899,
which is 0.083, and similarly for
the other rows, and
the sum is of course equal to 1.
So mapping the rows to the vocabulary,
you would interpret this output
vector as meaning that given a specific
inputs context words vector x.
The probability that the center
word is am is 0.0 is 3,
for because the probability is 0.03 and
so on.
Now the highest you in the vector is
0.61 for the row corresponding to happy.
So this would mean that the model is
predicting that the center word is happy.
You'll get to implement both relu and
softmax function in
this week's assignment.